Here again several pages were missing. The novel resumed:
It was the end of the chapter, but Sally Abbott was enjoying herself now, and she had nothing but time. She went on without a moment’s hesitation.
Sally Abbott had come to another gap, several pages this time. “Oh, tunkit!” she said. Again she had half a mind to quit. The farther she read, she could see in advance, the more pages she’d find missing. She stared at the top of the page beyond the gap, trying to reach some decision. Without quite meaning to, half- dreaming, she read on.
Sally looked up, smelling cooking. Lunchtime already? She listened to her brother clumping around the kitchen, the cat meowing at his heels. After a moment she put her novel on the table and got up, slipped her feet into her slippers, and made her way up the attic stairs for three apples. She put the apples on the table beside the book, used the bedpan and tucked it away out of sight, then went over to the door and pressed her ear against it. James was whistling as he’d done when he went out to chores this morning. She scowled. “We shall see what we shall see,” she said aloud, squinting fiercely, half crooning it, sing-song. She smiled, distracted by her witch imitation, thinking of her friend Ruth Thomas crooning impishly-wicked poetry to children at the library. She had a wonderfully expressive face. She could do idiot looks, greedy looks, pompous looks—she could make her face do almost anything. Her eyes seemed to slant, and you’d almost have sworn that her dog-teeth grew longer when she recited the wolf poem.

The Wolf is a very good watchdog, it’s true; The only trouble is,
He considers all he protects, and you too, His.

Ruth and her husband Ed had a cabin—more like a hunting lodge—in the mountains above East Arlington. Ed was one of those well-off farmers who could get away when he liked. Often she and Horace, and sometimes Estelle and Ferris Parks, had driven up there for a day or two. In the evening sometimes they would sing. Ed Thomas had a wonderful voice, of course; he was one of those Welshmen who would sing all day on his farm tractor, sing while he was milking or bathing in the tub, sing harmony with Ruth as they drove along the road. He was in church “every time they left the door unlocked,” Ruth liked to say—she

was a great joker—“thumbing through the hymnal and tuning up his throat.” Estelle’s tall, handsome husband Ferris had a bass voice, thin compared to Ed’s but a pleasure to listen to, all the same. Horace’s voice was ordinary. She smiled. The cabin had no electricity. The Thomases had put up large Japanese lanterns, and they had candles, of course. They would all sit on the full-width porch in front on a cool summer evening, the dark, shallow river driving past them, rattling—it had always been a river just jumping with fish—and she and Horace would hold hands, as would Ferris and Estelle, and Ed Thomas would talk of the weather or of things he’d seen. She’d never known anyone like him for talking of the weather. It was like poetry. He would speak of otters playing in the river— otters as big as large dogs, he said—or he’d describe precisely how locking time came, here in the woods, or he’d speak of the past. He told of the British spy who painted murals, over near Marlboro village, and of the pig-iron days in Shaftsbury and halfway down Prospect. They would sit hushed, entranced, and once while Ed talked she had been aware that Ferris Parks was looking at her.
She’d been a beauty in those days. Stood out in a crowd. Aware of his watching her, she’d smiled just a little, pretending she still listened, and she’d slipped off her shoes, and crossed her legs, moving one stockinged foot rhythmically, and she’d let tall, quiet Ferris Parks think whatever he might please.
She put the apple to her mouth, lined up her dentures, and bit. Juice sprayed. Carefully chewing, she set the apple down and climbed back into bed. She pulled up the blankets and took up her book again. “Now where were we?” she said, and adjusted her glasses a little. Into her mind came an image of Mr. Nit, in his black cap and black sweater, talking of atheism and accidents. She saw that she was picturing him as her Ginny’s husband, Lewis Hicks, and it made her smile. And who was Peter Wagner? Sally couldn’t say yet, except that he was tall, with beautiful, sad eyes, and blondish.



