It was a little past midnight when the old woman was roused from her reading by the squawk of a chicken and the thunderous rumble of her niece’s car pulling up into the driveway. She couldn’t believe so much time had passed, or that the novel, mere froth that it was, had so held her attention. She was always fast asleep by eleven at the latest, except, on occasion, when friends came to visit and Estelle played piano or Ruth recited poems; and even allowing for the way he’d upset her and, come to that, nearly killed her, that brother of hers—he was insane, that’s all; always had been—even allowing for the way he’d gotten her all riled up, treating her like an animal, depriving her of her most ordinary human rights till she was trembling and shaking and so weak at the knees she’d been afraid, coming up the stairs backwards, protecting her face with her hands, that she’d collapse and fall on him, and serve him right (she was shaking again now, remembering)—even allowing for all that, it was hard to believe it was fifteen minutes past midnight!
She put down the paperback, opened to her page, on the white-painted square- topped wicker table beside the head of the bed—higher than the bed, an awkward, foolish excuse for a table if ever there was one, wicker-wrapped legs angling out past a useless little shelf down underneath (the table, she was sure, was a remnant from the years her niece Virginia had occupied this room)—and got up to go over to the clock on the desk to make certain she was seeing right. She was, it seemed.
It was a grayish-black clock made of onyx, or something made to simulate onyx—it weighed twenty-five pounds if it weighed one ounce—with ostentatious pitted gold pillars on the front, Roman columns, and Roman numerals so unevenly spaced it took study to be sure of what hour it was, let

alone what minute. It stood in front of the mirror on the top of the closed oak desk, to the right of the glassed-in bookcase, level with her eyes. She couldn’t help noticing, looking above her blue plastic spectacle-rims at the hands on the clock, that her eyes, in the mirror behind it, were red, ruined by her weeping, and perhaps made redder still by all that reading. She was not a great reader, she’d be quick to admit—certainly not a person who ordinarily read trivia! That’s what he’s brought us to, she thought, and her lips and white, white cheeks began to tremble. By “us” she meant herself and her late husband Horace.
Horace, her husband of thirty-five years, would never have read such a book as hers. He’d read only the finest literature, authors like Nathaniel Hawthorne, John Dos Passos, and Thomas Wolfe. She had not read them clear through herself, but she knew, if only by the fact that he read them, that they were profoundly serious-minded authors, “heavy,” as they say, full of difficult philosophy and memorable prose and keen insights into human nature. It was wonderfully comforting, hearing him read her memorable passages just as she was drifting off to sleep, prose that rolled over her dimming mind like the ocean over tumbling wrecks at sea. Sometimes as he read he would choke a little with emotion. She would pat his elbow. Heaven only knew what he would think of her—gentle Horace Abbott with his mild gray eyes and soft dentist’s hands—if, standing, ghostly, at her shoulder, he should find her reading trash. Her eyes filled with tears, not so much of self-pity as righteous indignation, for she was thinking again of her television set, and, taking her embroidered hankie from the sleeve of her nightie, where she’d tucked it, she angrily blew her nose. “We’ll get even, Horace, you wait and see,” she whispered to the empty room. Her husband had been dead for twenty years—twenty years exactly this Halloween. Dead of a heart attack. Someone had been in the room with him; they were gone when she got there.
Her niece’s car was still rumbling, down below, though Virginia was in the house now; the old woman could hear them talking. It was odd, she thought, that Virginia’d gone and left the engine running, eating the gas up at sixty cents a gallon; but then she remembered. Sometimes when they turned off the motor the car wouldn’t start again. Last Sunday afternoon when they’d come over after church (Sally’s church, not theirs; Lewis was an atheist), they’d had to work two full hours to get the old thing running. It was a terrible car, a Chevrolet four-door (she and Horace had had Buicks). But Virginia and her husband were poor, of course. Virginia’s husband Lewis—Lewis Hicks—was shiftless and dull-witted
—or at any rate that was Sally Abbott’s opinion, not that she condemned him; it

was a free country. He had just a little touch of Indian in him. His great-great- great-great-grandfather had been a Swamp-Yankee. It was well known. Lewis had never gotten past eighth grade and was now just a handyman, a painter of porches, fixer of old pumps, shingler of barn and woodshed roofs, installer of screens and storm-windows, and in the winter, a gluer of old broken pictureframes and caner of chairs. He’d worked for her some, years ago, when she’d sold antiques. The Chevrolet, bluish-gray with brown patches, was a menace: she, for one, refused to ride in it. To take the thing out on the highway should be a criminal act. There were great rusted holes you could put your whole leg through, the front left headlight had been smashed out for months, and the back had been crashed into by a hit-and-run so that they had to hold the trunk shut with electric wire.
She stood twisting the hankie in her two hands, as if trying to wring it out, wondering what they could be saying so long, James and Virginia. She ought to get that Dickey home to bed; tomorrow was a school-day. Picking up the book, not noticing she was doing it, she went over to the tall narrow door—the door to the hallway, the one James had locked (there were two other doors, the closet door and the one by the foot of the bed that went up to the attic)—to see if she could hear what they were saying. She couldn’t. Even with her good ear pressed to the wood, all she could catch was a faint rumble and vibration in the wood— ordinary chat of the kind you might expect in the middle of the night, her telling him, no doubt, the gossip from her meeting of the Rebekahs, or whatever, him saying just enough to keep her there, the way an old man will when his daughter comes by, and over by the fireplace or on the overstuffed plush couch, little Dickey curled up asleep with his deformed, one-eyed Snoopy.
In her mind’s eye the old woman could see her niece Virginia as clear as day, all dolled up in rouge and lipstick, artificial black lashes, the stiff, half-dead looking dyed-blonde hair teased high over her head in a wide bouffant, cigarette between her fingers—she was a nervous wreck, and no wonder, growing up with that mad fool James and her poor troubled brother who had killed himself, and then marrying that Lewis!—nails dark red, same color as the lipstick not quite following her lips—there would be lipstick too, lined like a fingerprint, on the filter of her L&M. Virginia was pretty, for a woman of thirty-eight. She luckily hadn’t drawn that long, narrow Page head but, instead, the short, wide one her mother, Ariah, had—James’ wife—and that same double chin. Ginny was a good girl, always had been, just as her poor simple mother had been, one of the Blackmers. You could be certain James Page hadn’t told her yet that he’d gotten

drunk on whiskey and chased his own eighty-year-old sister up the stairs with a fireplace log and locked her in the bedroom like a madwoman! Virginia’d have something to say, all right, when she heard about that. And no doubt he was working up to tell her, that old mule. Likely’s not he’d pretend to be proud of it
—maybe would be proud of it, you never knew. Anything he did, he’d confess it right away; that was the way he’d been since he was old enough to talk. Thought it proved him honest. She pressed her ear to the door again. They were still blabbing on quietly. She pulled her head away and straightened up, lips compressed, annoyed, absentmindedly slapping the paperback book against the palm of her left hand, thinking again about revenge.
The room smelled of apples. He had twelve bushels of them upstairs in the attic, where in the winter it would be cold but not too cold. She didn’t give a hoot about the smell just now, but when her mood was better she liked it, sometimes even opened the attic door to let it float down the narrow wooden stairs and drift around her bed while she slept. It reminded her of her childhood, in this same house. This had been James’ room, in those days. She’d slept downstairs in the room off the pantry. Even then the floor—the wide, softwood boards—had been un-level, so that at night the furniture would incline to slide toward one corner. The same old drop-leaf oak desk with glassed-in books to the left of it had been here then, though the books had been different—heaven only knew where these had come from, perhaps James’ poor wife’s mother: Little Journeys into the Homes of the Great, Coe’s Cyclopaedia, The New Pharmacopeia, The Blithedale Romance by Nathaniel Hawthorne, Training Vicious Dogs, and a dozen ragged hymnals. The grayish-black clock had been kept downstairs in those days, on the fireplace mantel, and the chimes, back then, still rang.
She noticed she had the paperback book in her hand and thought, How odd, and shook her head. She was half-inclined to read a little more in it. The grayish- black clock said twenty to one now, but strange to say she wasn’t sleepy at all. It must be she’d gotten her second wind; or perhaps the truth was she never really slept much anyway, anymore, just fooled herself, laid her head against the pillow, closed her eyes, let her mind drift, and passed it off for sleeping. Yes, she would read a page or two more, she decided. She wasn’t some child, going to be corrupted by a foolish book. Which was worse, come right down to it?—a book that made you smile from time to time, though it spoke about certain things better left unmentioned, such as bedroom things, and suicide, or a book full of gloomy opinions and terrible fore-warnings in memorable prose that was all

hogwash anyway? “Show me, Horace Abbott,” she demanded sternly, “a book that’s got insights into human nature that an eighty-year-old woman hasn’t thought of!” The ghost kept mum. Yes, then: she’d tuck herself in and poor Horace could just look the other way.
But just as the old woman was taking the first step in the direction of the bed, the commotion broke out downstairs. With a look of what could only be described as manic glee, she darted back to the door and flattened her ear to it.

For once in her life, as it happened, the old woman was wrong in her prediction about her brother. The old man had fully intended, in point of fact, to tell his daughter just exactly what he’d done, and he’d repeatedly moved the conversation in that direction; but somehow or other he had never quite said it, had merely stood there like a Stoughton bottle, and when she’d got up and picked up her Dickey to carry him to the car, he’d decided to let the thing slide. It was thus his grandson Dickey who told Ginny what the old man had done. They were halfway to the car, Ginny carrying the boy in her arms, his long legs dangling, his pale eyelids closed, one elbow clamped on Snoopy. “How’s my good baby?” Ginny asked him, as she’d been asking every night since they’d got him from the adoption agency. “Mmm,” he said, as always, and brushed his cheek against her hair. Ahead of them in the darkness, just within range of the light falling over the leaf-covered lawn, the grayish Chevrolet with its smashed- in headlight was rumbling and clanking and sending out such thick brown clouds of exhaust one might have thought at first glance it had been parked near a pile of burning leaves. They were just out of range of the old man’s hearing when the little boy said, “Grampa chased Aunt Sally up the stairs with a stick.”
Virginia Hicks stopped walking, mouth opening, eyes widening, and with an expression more like sorrow and terrible weariness than anything else, turned her head, slightly drawing it back, to try to see her son’s face. She could only see his neck and ear. Not in disbelief—in despair, more like—she said, “With a stick?”
Dickey nodded his head. “It was a fireplace log. He locked her in the bedroom.”
Ginny turned, child and all, eyes swimming in tears, to face her father. “Oh, Dad,” she wailed. She saw his back straighten and his long jaw stiffen, prepared to be belligerently defensive as usual, and the same instant she felt Dickey tense up with alarm, realizing too late that now he was in for it from his grampa. Both Dickey and the old man spoke at once, her father barking, “She had it comin’! She stotted the whole thing!” and her son: “Mommy, I want to stay in the car.”

“You can’t stay in the car,” she snapped. “The damn fumes’ll kill you.” She started back with him toward the house.
“Now Ginny you mine your own business,” her father said, self-righteous and whining at the same time, standing his ground in the doorway though both of them knew he’d back off if she pressed him. “This is between yer aunt Sally and me, and nobody else’s got a pot in it.”
“Holy Christ,” she said, and moved straight on toward him, unconsciously using Dickey as a human shield, and the old man backed out of the doorway. She went straight to the living room, put down Dickey on the couch, mechanically stuck the red sateen pillow under his head and Snoopy in his arms, then went striding back to deal with her father. He was still standing in the kitchen, looking hawk-eyed and sullen and crazy as a loon, his hand on the white doorknob, holding the door open. She closed the door to the living room behind her. “Just what the hell,” she asked, “is going on here?”
“This is my house,” her father said, “and if Sally don’t like the way I live here, she can damn well move right on out of it.”
“It’s the family house,” Ginny said, throwing her head forward, fists on her hips. “She’s got as much right to it as you have.”
“That ain’t so!” His indignation was more confident now, for about this there could be no question. “It was left to me and I’ve lived here ah my life.”
“Well it shouldn’t have been left to you,” she yelled, “it’s not fair and you know it. Why should one child get everything and the other one nothing?”
“Sally was rich. She had her dentist.” He sneered childishly.
“Well she don’t now, does she? If they’d known he’d die young and Aunt Sally would live on years and years past him, they’d have left it to you both. Fair’s fair.”
He was less confident, all at once. “Fair is fair and law is law,” he said. “Shame on you!” she barked. She saw him wilt a little, puckering his wide,
almost lipless mouth, glancing left and right like a cornered rabbit; and furious though she was, her heart went out to the old maniac. He’d never in his life been a man to defend the indefensible, and both of them knew she had him dead to rights. He noticed he was holding the door open, letting in October, and abruptly closed it.
“Go let her out, Dad,” she said. A muscle was jerking in her right cheek, and with a start she realized that the exact same muscle was jerking in his. It for some reason gave her heart a wrench. She wanted to cry, throw her arms around him as she’d done as a little girl. Oh God, she thought, things are so terrible!

Tears squirted into her eyes. She thought then: Christ, where are my cigarettes?
He crossed his arms across his chest, fingers on each hand hanging over his elbows, thumbs hooked inside—crooked, stiff fingers, with huge, arthritic knuckles; a farmer’s fingers: knuckles barked and scratched, one finger cut off just below the fingernail, from an argument with a baler. She remembered when his hair, snow white, had been brown as shoepolish. He said nothing, biting his lips together and not meeting her eyes, staring a little cross-eyed at the yellow wall beside her. He could stand that way all year if he took a firm notion.
“Dad,” she said still more sternly, “go let her out.”
“No sir!” he said, and snapped up his eyes to meet hers. “Sides, she be asleep.” He turned and stalked straight across the room to the cupboard, practically stamping in those iron-toed shoes, and got a glass out. He looked at it critically, as if expecting Aunt Sally would have left it streaked and spotted, though a better housekeeper never lived, and he knew it. He took it to the icebox and got out ice from the blue plastic tray, then carried the ice-filled glass to the upright cupboard in the corner where his whiskey was.
“Don’t you think you’ve had enough?” she asked.
He tipped his head sideways and stared at her in rage. “I’ve had one damn glass ah night and that’s ah,” he said. It was true, she knew. For one thing he’d never told a lie in his life, and for another he was not a hard drinker; he’d been through it and he’d stopped. She bit her lips together, watching him pour the whiskey, then the water. What time is it?, she wondered, and where the hell did I leave my cigarettes? She’d had them, she remembered, just before she went over to the couch to pick up Dickey to carry him to the car. She saw her hand putting them on the fireplace mantel. Without a word, she opened the living-room door and went to get them. Just as she was picking them up—Dickey was fast asleep
—the phone rang. Lewis, she thought. Oh, Jesus. “That’ll be fer you,” her father called from the kitchen.
The phone was on the murdered television. She shook out a cigarette as she picked up the receiver. “Hello?” she said. She got a match out and hurriedly struck it. On the cover there was a picture of the Boston Tea Party. Everywhere you looked, it was the Bicentennial. Did people have no fucking shame? “Hello?” she said again. Her hands were shaking.
“That you there, Ginny?” Lewis asked. He sounded baffled and only half awake, as if it were she who’d called him.
“Hi, Lewis,” she said. She took a quick suck at the cigarette. Thank God for cigarettes, she thought, and then, thinking of her father and Aunt Sally, Thank

God for cancer! Softly, trying not to wake Dickey, she said, “Honey, I’m still up at Dad’s. There’s been a little trouble, and—”
“I can’t hear you too good,” Lewis called to her.
“There’s been a little trouble,” she said again, more loudly. “Trouble?” he called.
“It’s nothing serious. Dad and Aunt Sally—” She stopped, a sudden chill running up her spine. It took her a moment to register the cause: out in the yard, the car had died.
“Ginny? You still there?” Lewis asked.
She took a deep drag on the cigarette. “Yes, I’m still here,” she said. “Ginny, your cah’s died,” her father called in to her.
She clenched her left fist and rolled her eyes up.
Lewis asked, “Are you all right, Ginny?” Not exactly critical—that wasn’t his nature—more in the way of offering information that might be new to her, he said, “It’s half past one in the mahnin.”
“Yes, I know,” she said. “Look, sweetheart, I’ll be home just as quick as I can.
You go to sleep.”
“Dickey’s not sick, is he?”
“No no, Dickey’s fine. You go on to sleep.”
“Well ah right, sweet-hot,” Lewis said. “Don’t be too long.” It was not, of course, an order; he never gave orders, even to his dogs. It was merely good advice. “Goodnight, then, sweet-hot.”
“Yes, goodnight, sweetie.”
When she replaced the receiver and glanced over at Dickey, he had his eyes open, watching her.
“You go back to sleep,” she said, and pointed at him. He clicked his eyes shut.
Back in the kitchen with her father, Ginny said, “Dad, are you going to unlock that door or am I?”
“Must be you are, if ennabody does,” he said. He pursed his lips and looked down into the glass in his hand. He swirled the ice around.
It wasn’t much but it was more than she’d hoped for. “Where’s the key?” she said.
“Likely as not it’s in there in the dish on the TV,” he said, “where it always is.”
She went and got the key, then came back into the kitchen and started for the door to the stairway. As she was opening it she paused and looked at him and asked, “What did she do that you thought was so terrible?”

“Talked,” he said.
“Talked,” she echoed. She waited. She listened to the hum of the clock over the stove.
“Said a lot of things not fit for a young child’s ears,” he said. He took a sip of the whiskey. He held the glass awkwardly, elbow straight out, as if he’d be a bit more comfortable with a dipper.
“Like for instance?”
“It’s not woth discussin.”
“I’d really be interested to know,” Ginny said, eyebrow cocked. She tossed the key in her hand, the same hand that held the cigarette. But she knew that smug, self-righteous look. Doomsday could come and go, and he’d stand in the wind like a cornshock and tell her no more.
“You can lead a hoss to water but you can’t make him drink,” he said.
“Or a mule,” she said. She started up the stairs. When she’d unlocked the door she turned the handle and gave it a tug, then pushed inward. Nothing happened. It was bolted on the inside.
“Aunt Sally?” she called softly. No answer.
She thought a moment, then rapped lightly on the door. She tipped her head to listen. “Aunt Sally?” she called again.
“I’m asleep,” Aunt Sally called.
“Aunt Sally you’re not asleep, you’re talking.” “I talk in my sleep.”
Ginny waited. Nothing. After a time she called, “Aunt Sally, your light’s on. I can see it under the door.” Again she stood with her head tipped, listening like a bird. She thought she heard the floor creak; otherwise nothing.
“You’re both crazy,” she said. No response.
She had half a mind to lock the door again but thought better of it. “All right,” she said, “sulk then. When and if you decide to come out, the door’s unlocked.” She waited half a minute longer, but the old woman wouldn’t speak, so she walked down the hall, stopped and used the bathroom, then went back downstairs. Her father was not in the kitchen now. She went to the living room and put the key in the dish, then changed her mind and slipped it into her pocket so the old man couldn’t use it to lock the door again—not that that would stop him if his stubbornness hung on. He could nail the thing shut. She wouldn’t put it past him.

“Dad?” she called.
“I’m in bed,” he called back. He had the bedroom in back of the living room, the room that, when she was a child, had been used for the ironing. She went over, past the couch where Dickey lay, and tried the door, opened it two inches, and looked in. It was pitch dark. “You won’t be in bed long if I can’t get my car started,” she said.
“If you can’t stot the cah, you just run up and sleep with Aunt Sally,” he called. “He hee!”
“Like God damn hell,” she said. “You’ll hitch me up the horses.” “Don’t fahget to turn out the lights,” he said.
Above, they heard Aunt Sally sneaking to the toilet.
The car, for some reason, started the second time she turned the key. She went back to the living room for Dickey, turned off the lights, put the screen over the fireplace—her father never used it, “Steals the heat,” he said—carried the child and Snoopy back out to the Chevy, and started for home.

The old woman, up in the bedroom, listened to her leave. She smiled wickedly, exactly like a witch on TV—she was aware of it herself, and relished it. What had it ever actually gotten her, those years of trying to be a Christian, fair and decent? A television set with the works shot out of it, a crooked old bedroom she wouldn’t have put a hired girl in if she still had her house in the village, a bedroom that, whenever the wind was strong, was so troubled by drafts that the doors rumbled, and so unhealthy, for some reason, that her coleus in its green ceramic cart—a plant that had nearly taken care of itself when she’d lived in town—was now half-dead, and nothing she could do seemed to help worth a Hannah cook. No, she would read her trashy novel; they could think what they liked.
She opened the paperback to the place she’d left off, closed her eyes for just a moment, and at once fell asleep.

It was morning when she awakened, and James was knocking, calling to her at the door. Through the window she could see the mountain, garish pink with sunrise. The air in the room around her was crisp. It smelled of winter.
“You planning to get up and have breakfast?” James called. Meaning, she knew: “You planning to get up and get me breakfast?” Ha! Before she’d come here to cook and keep house for him, he’d been sick all the time on account of the way he ate—nothing but fried foods, never any vegetables, so that he was

constipated both day and night, and walked bent over at the waist with cramps. She saw him again, in her mind’s eye, waving that stick of firewood at her, eyes like a wild drunken Indian’s, prepared to kill her, his own blood sister without a friend or protector in this world.
“Sally? You hear me?”
She decided to keep silent, as she’d done with Ginny. It was a fact of life that if people knew what you were feeling they could work you around.
With a little start of joy, she remembered the apples in the attic. She could get by on those, for a while at least. She didn’t need to cook him breakfast. In her sudden happiness, she forgot her resolve to keep silent. “I’m not hungry, James,” she called. When he was out doing chores she’d sneak down and poach herself a nice egg, and make herself some toast. “I’m just not hungry this morning,” she said.
That stopped him a minute. She could see him, in her mind’s eye, standing there pulling at his long, whiskered chin, bushy white eyebrows lifted, eyes staring straight down his nose. He said: “You’ve gotta come out of there sooner or later, if it’s only to go to the potty.”
She thought about that. It was true enough, and it would be more like sooner than later. She could use the bathroom while he worked at his chores; but the rest of the time … Then her gaze, restlessly roving around the room as she groped for a rejoinder, landed on the washstand in the corner, beyond the attic door, and she realized with a start that she had him! Down inside that washstand, tucked in among old towels and washcloths, lay Ariah’s old bedpan, and right there on top, under the wooden towel-rack on its oaken lyre, peeking out from behind the kerosene lamp, sat a whole box of Kleenex! If he wanted war, war he would get. She could outlast any siege he could mount!
“All the same, I’m not hungry, James,” she called brightly.
There was another minute’s silence. She held her breath, smiling.
“Well I be cussed,” he said—more to the doorknob, she imagined, than to her. Now she heard his footsteps moving away, hay-foot, straw-foot, maugering slowly toward the head of the stairs, just past the bathroom, and then down the stairs into the kitchen.
“Well I be God damned,” said James Page to himself, down in the kitchen. The cat ducked out of sight. It was all very well for the old woman to play games, he told himself, but the facts of the matter was as they was. He was willing to admit that by rights the house was as much hers as his, now that his daughter had called it to his attention—though they was many a man he knew

would never been so generous. It was him had the deed in the Courthouse. So far as the Law was concerned, she damn well had the clothes on her back. Well, tell it to the bees; law was law and fair was fair, as he’d said himself. He was willing to grant she had a certain, as you might say, moral right. But by the same token, he had certain rights. Did she think she could take away his house from him and, like some scoundrel on Relief, just lay there in her dad-blame bed like a pig in a pughole? They’d see about that!
He frowned, head thrown forward, stroking his chin, his left hand fingering the snakehead in his pocket; then, reaching his decision, went into the living room for the key. He smiled when he saw it was missing from the dish that held the others (the dish held also a thimble and some coins and buttons). He should’ve known right off his daughter would’ve taken it. And she should’ve known he’d have another one. There was always two keys to everything; that was one of the unalterable rules of the universe. And in this case, the second was in his shoebox, in his upper right desk draw.
Sally, in her bed, with her teeth in now, was still smiling with self-satisfied, malicious delight, like a foxy old general—or like wicked Captain Fist in the novel she was reading—when she heard her brother James coming back up the stairs, then down the hall toward her door. She was puzzled, a little. It was unlikely that he’d beg; even more unlikely that he’d stoop to persuasion. Then what?, she wondered. The footsteps stopped outside her door and she leaned forward, listening. After a minute, she heard—her heart fluttered—the lock click! She continued to smile, but her eyes were thoughtful, even a little troubled, as his footsteps went back to the head of the stairs and then down them. Soon she smelled bacon and eggs frying.
She got up and used the bedpan (thank God for the bedpan!), then turned the stiff winglatch on the attic door, pulled the small china knob until the door came unstuck, and went up to get two apples. She polished them on her nightie as she brought them back down, and, after she’d re-latched the attic door, took them to bed with her, along with her book. She heard James whistling as he went out to milk the cows—tunelessly chirping, not a trouble in this world!—to torment her. Well they’d see about that.
By now the pink had nearly faded from the clouds, and the mountain had settled to the various reds, yellows, purples, dark greens, and browns of high autumn in Vermont. She did love autumn. Always had.
She could last on apples—they were big, juicy Winesaps—as long as he could last, too stupid or set in his ways to cook a vegetable or nibble at a fruit. She

remembered how sorry she’d felt for him when she came, seeing him doubled over with the constipation cramps. Sally smiled.
She found her place in the book, got her pillows adjusted, and settled down serenely to her reading.
