“Snuff it, baby,” he’d hissed at the world, but the world dragged on.
After thirty-three years of insipid debauchery—balling and whiskey and dreary books (poetry and novels, philosophy and science), more foreign ports than he could now remember and, between them, endless weeks at sea, where he shoveled his head fuller yet with books—Peter Wagner had come to the end of his rope or, rather (this time), the center of his bridge. All life, he had come to understand, was a boring novel. Death would be boring too, no doubt, but you weren’t required to pay attention.
His death was to be a grand act, however senseless. He’d drop without a sound through pitch-dark night to be swallowed by the Old Symbolic Sea. He’d read the grisly tales—suicides gruesomely, foolishly impaled on the radar antennae of passing ships or splattered obscenely on pilings or rocks
—and had planned ahead. He had examined the span by daylight and had marked his spot with an unobstructive X in light green paint. Now the hour was at hand, in a sense the toughest of his life. He was extremely drunk and had to walk the bridge three times to find his X. By the time he found it, there were red and yellow lights flashing on and off at both ends of the bridge—they had found his car—and the suicide squad had its sirens going. He climbed over the rail where the X was and hung there waiting for the squad cars to pass. They didn’t. They too knew the perfect place. For a panicky second, he thought of dropping immediately, but good sense prevailed, as it always did with him, or he wouldn’t be here committing suicide. What could they do when they saw him there, hanging by his fingertips? Shoot him?
With the intense vision of the very drunk, he watched the door of the white car fly open and saw two booted feet hit the pavement. “There he is!” someone shouted, and the sound seemed, amusingly, to reach him from behind, from the thick night and fog. It came to him that if he were hanging from the bottom girder of the bridge, as he’d meant to be, he couldn’t see the squad cars. Gripping tightly with his right hand, he let go with his left and groped for something lower. It was farther down than he would have expected, but large, with wonderful flanges. He gripped it with all his might, and lowered his right hand. He swung, or else the bridge yawed—by mathematics he could support either theory—but the grip of both hands held. He made his legs into dead weights to stop the swinging.
He could see all San Francisco now. It was beautiful, rising, slightly bleary, out of fog. Interestingly enough, his whole body felt limp, muscleless, yet he was hanging by, essentially, only three fingers of each hand, only two knuckles involved on each finger, or six knuckles in all, approximately. It was incredible. Also, it was incredible that they’d found his car so quickly. Civilization was a marvelous thing. He thought of the Babylonians, the Romans. “Hang on!” someone yelled. He hung on, for reasons of his own. There was great commotion now on the bridge above him.
“I’m Dr. Berg,” a voice in (it seemed) the fog above and behind him said. It was a gentle voice, deeply concerned, professionally friendly. It was a veritable musical instrument, that voice. Peter Wagner in his drunkenness smiled, almost giggled. He knew by experience how such voices could sweetly groan, like cellos, seduce like double-stopped, mourning violins, suddenly lash out in anger, like a snare-drummer’s rim-shots. He’d had a dozen psychiatrists, as had his wife—all excellent, capable of baffling him with terrible clarity, like a loving parent. (He was well off; a trust fund from his father’s estate.) Peter Wagner was no one to disparage such skills, the virtuoso music of an accomplished brain-bender. It was mortally depressing that such voices, warm and human as an uncle’s, one might have thought, were precision-built, cool scientific devices that could engage and disengage the gears of the will by precise neuro-chemical formulae, laboratory-tested and repeatedly proved “psychological strategies” that no human consciousness, even the most obdurate, could indefinitely resist (the effects of adrenocortical fluids, ureic acid, and ingested alcohol were as predictable and controllable as acid in a battery, dishearteningly dependable as the drool of a witless Russian dog at the tinkle of a bell) ; and it was no less mortally depressing when they “played it by ear,” as they liked to say, cunningly hiding in the dark, husky center of the language of the masses— trying now this shrewd approach, now that, fishing, in this case, for some last feeble tittle of vulnerable, smashable humanity in the would-be suicide
—played it, that is, not by ordinary ear but by finely tuned, educated nuance-perceptor, quicker to respond than young lovers, indifferent as transistors, chilly as dead snakes.
“I’m Dr. Berg,” said the voice a second time, mellow, firm as cable, reaching down to him with calculated universal love, man to man, a voice to lean on, to depend on or from, emblem of unguessed reserves to be called upon, model for his weakness and confusion to reach up to, grasp toward: “I have survived this cesspool,” called the guardian in effect, teeth clenched, eyes mild with experience overwhelmed (he had, clearly, no beautiful sister turned vegetable, no misfiring glands, no ex-Christian rage), “so can you, my son!”
“Hello,” he said.
The voice called down: “I’m your friend. I’m a psychiatrist.”
He listened to the foghorns mournfully groaning to the universe B.O. The sirens were still going, and he couldn’t tell where, in the blackness below his dangling shoes, the ships were. His fingers, though he couldn’t feel them, were like steel. He tipped back his head to look up (he was unable—because of the bunched-up shoulders of his overcoat—to look down or anywhere else except level-and-straight-ahead, like a horse in blinders, sometimes called blinkers, or, laboriously, up). Among the bridge-lights, drifting double images to his eyes’ disfocus, there floated a mushroom-white, bearded face with a hat. “Tell them to turn off the sirens,” he called.
“Turn off the sirens,” Dr. Berg said, softly fulminant, basso profundo.
Despite the rolling, ruminating fog, the night was suddenly still, it seemed to him: majestically peaceful. It was as if, exploding outward to the farthest, filtered star, the invisible edge of the ocean horizon, he had himself become
—had mysteriously subsumed—the night, containing it like a bell-jar. Call it enlightenment, subject and object in perfect interpenetration. The colored lights of San Francisco, stretching for miles, bloomed vaguely in the fog like emotions lost, or here and there cut sharply through open air like a few childhood Christmases. Far, far ahead of him and slightly to his right, a huge scrawl of neon that he couldn’t read, though he remembered it faintly, went on and off, and he was aware all at once of the distance he must fall, the distance he had come, the magnitude of things, God’s grandeur. He was alarmed from the tips of his fingers to his toes: miracles on every hand, seagulls and the brilliance of squadcar lights, the stability of steel, the intense physicality of fog-swirled space, space he would penetrate in a moment, probably with a yell. The world was a magnificent, mysterious thing, thrilling as a dance on a volcano rim, charged with unspeakable, unnameable powers that rose up out of earth and came plummeting from

the night, invisibly colliding and exploding all around him, rushing, inaudibly roaring, to the ends of the universe. He was the center of it, hanging by six knuckles from his girder, high priest and sacrifice, objective and dispassionate, churning with emotion (ah!, air, pride, plume), ultimate perceptor of cosmic nuances, core of “the ambiance.”
Directly underneath him, a foghorn loud as an earthquake exploded from the watery stillness, startling him so badly that he almost lost his grip.
“Listen,” Dr. Berg said. “You can let go any time you want to, but until you do I want you to listen. Will you?”
Oh yes, life’s guardian, light of my darkness, clarity to my miserable soul’s confusion, he was on the point of saying, drunkenly giggling as he thought of it, but he caught himself in time. It would give Berg a clue. (“Ah, you’re an intellectual, a student of books!” the man would say.) It was one of life’s mortally discouraging facts that if a psychiatrist understood you, he could beat you. “Yes sir,” he said.
“Can you hang on?” Berg said. “Pretty drunk,” he said.
“Let me hang onto your hands.”
He smiled, drunkenly malevolent, at San Francisco. “Yes, good.” He could feel the big ship sliding past underneath him. Another foghorn, higher in pitch, was coming in from his right. Berg’s hands came around his wrists, gentle as a fairy’s, and clamped on. No, he realized then, not Berg’s. Leather-gloved.
“You tricked me,” he said. It came out badly and he tried again. The leather gloves began pulling at him and he clamped his knees under the bridge.
“The shithead’s got hold of something with his legs,” the policeman said. “Lend a hand.”
Some more gloves came. He smiled. “I lift weights,” he said carefully and slowly. To himself, at least, he sounded sober as a judge.
“Also, he’s psychotic,” Dr. Berg said. “They have amazing strength. You can tell he’s psychotic by his eyes. Look.” He pointed down. “He’s got eyes like a couple of vaginas.”
Peter Wagner pursed his lips, deeply offended, his anger rising. It was not so much the slur against his eyes, though that was outrageous, in fact. He had beautiful eyes. He’d been told it a thousand times, in a thousand ports, and it was true: his eyes were otherworldly, they had mysterious glints and

depths, odd shadows, the stillness of clear, dark pools in a German forest. To describe them as Dr. Berg had done was tasteless, blasphemous. But what offended him most was the slovenly diagnosis. It was shoddy medicine, such practice as the world had left over for the poor and dispossessed—the weeping mad maiden in her upstairs room, the whiskered drunk in his Fillmore Street gutter, the sixteen-year-old black bow-legged whore. To calm his wrath and stall for time, he yelled, “Purity of heart is to will one thing!”
“Get the rope,” someone said.
Looking down at the fog, insofar as he could, was like looking at clouds from above.
“That’s from Kierkegaard,” Dr. Berg said with sugary interest. “You’re an intellectual,” he said.
A rope came down, with a grapnel on the end, and they fumbled it toward him. He broke free with his left hand, hanging only with his right, and Dr. Berg said, “Lay off,” then whispered, “Let me talk to him.” Dr. Berg said, “You think I don’t know about suffering? You’re suffering.”
“It’s true. Christ.” It was not true, except that his fingers had lost their numbness and his knuckles were in pain.
“You feel as if all life’s a waste. You’ve read the philosophers—hungry, hungry—and nobody’s got a real answer. You’re practically an authority on existentialism, absurdism!” He carefully spoke French.

“Christ, yes.”
“Love is an illusion. Hope is the opiate of the people. Faith is pure stupidity. That’s how you feel.”
“Yes,” he said. “Yes.”
“Let him drop,” Dr. Berg said coldly.
The gloved hands let loose but he hung on. “Is there a ship underneath me?” he asked.
Berg laughed. “You’re testing me, friend. You’re a very complex person.” “Is there?” he said.
“No. Not right now.”
“You’re a very complex person too. If you can’t win, you want me smashed on some fucking ship.” He looked up and the mushroom face smiled.
“That may be true,” Dr. Berg said. “It puts you in kind of a bind, doesn’t it? You’re too drunk to tell if there’s a ship underneath you, and since I’m a professional psychiatrist, with a certain inevitable ego-involvement in the work I do, maybe I’d rather see you smashed on a ship than gently sucked out by the ocean if I’ve got to lose.”
“That’s true,” he said. He began to cry, carefully listening to the foghorns. “The whole modern world is a catastrophe for the individual psyche. I’ve tried everything—love, drugs, whiskey, withdrawal to the Old Symbolic Sea, but everywhere I turn falsehood, illusion. I want to die.” He glanced quickly at Dr. Berg, then down again. “Waaa!” he bawled.
“I know how you feel,” Dr. Berg said, vastly gentle. “You think I haven’t felt it? Listen. I’m married. A sweet, good wife, three sweet, good children. You think I’m ignorant of despair?”
“Where have we gone wrong?” “That’s what Tolstoy asked himself.”
They had cars going over the bridge again now. It seemed a little unfeeling. How could they know Peter Wagner was not that poor mad weeping maiden, or the bow-legged prostitute, hardly more than a child? Yet all life is compromise, of course. The mail must get through, and the groceries; almonds to San Diego, squash to Pasadena. God bless, God bless. His father had made his fortune in sugar beets. A splendid man; frail and coughing, those last few years, but optimistic to the end. His rural background. “Europeans,” he said, “know how to live. We’re mites by comparison to the wise old Europeans.” Everything he said was true,

always, for the moment at least. Peter Wagner’s respect for his father was boundless, his admiration downright religious, though he agreed with him in nothing. “Between them, big government and the unions are ruining this country,” his father said, “and a few unscrupulous big businesses.” It was not that what his father said was untrue; it was merely tiresome, like great art forever staring ga-ga at the black abyss. “Drink up, Andrew,” his mother would say. That too was a tiresome philosophy. His uncle Morton had a book, which he was unable to get published, about “the great Negro- Jewish conspiracy.” The rest of his childhood, so far as he could remember, had been bird-baths and elm trees and lawns. Sometimes at parties, to his horror, his stepmother spoke French.
“Doesn’t it?” Dr. Berg asked sharply.
He realized his mind had been wandering. He wondered if arthritis was the feeling in his knuckles now. He called up, “If despair is the meaning of life, a man should seize it, clutch it like a god!” He felt his overcoat ripping at the armpits.
“That’s true,” Dr. Berg said. “Or anyway, it’s as true as anything else. So drop.”
“You’re a very complex person,” he said. “You make it extremely difficult for a man to drop.” He felt openness below him. Another ship was moving in. A small one. Half a mile away there was a blurry searchlight, a Coast Guard cutter. Ah, civilization! Swift, swift! The cutter came on with incredible speed. It was too late already. He hung on. He said: “Death is as meaningless as life. You agree, Dr. Berg?”
“Of course. So what else? Listen. Come talk with me in my office. If you convince me that suicide is the only way, I won’t prevent you. You believe me?”
“I do, I do!”
“Then let us pull you up.” “I don’t want to.”
“Then drop.” He saw his mistake instantly. The ship had passed and the water below was clear. “Grab him!”
He dropped. The beautiful lights of San Francisco hung level for a time then sank upward, slowly, slowly. The rush of wind sucked his breath out. He fell and fell.

Aboard the Indomitable, Mr. Goodman turned with a jerk. “Man

overboard!” he yelled, though it was not quite fitting. Whatever it was that fell, six inches from the larboard bow, went down like a boulder, throwing almost no splash. Choong, it went, and he yelled, “Full speed backwards!” A strange command. “You’re crazy,” Mr. Nit hissed. “If the Captain hears—” “It was a man,” Mr. Goodman said. “I saw it.” It wasn’t quite true. He knew it was a man; he saw nothing, merely heard it come screaming like a bomb. The boat jerked and shuddered, then backed up as Jane reversed the engine. “There!” Mr. Goodman yelled. Jane cut the engine and the Indomitable was silent except for the trickle of a few small leaks.
“Jesus,” Mr. Nit said, and glanced back at where the Captain would emerge if he emerged. But he could see the thing floating, sweeping out to sea, and, in his confusion, he threw a line to it. The Coast Guard cutter was turning, coming back. “Jesus,” he said again. The Indomitable was loaded to the gunnels with marijuana.
“Switch off the lights,” Mr. Goodman said.
“Switch off the lights,” Mr. Nit called. The lights went off. The cutter crossed to starboard, the wrong side. Mr. Goodman had his shoes off now. He snapped back the rope and dived. He thrashed in the water, blind as one of Mr. Nit’s eels, and in three, four minutes, absurdly, he found the body. It was certainly dead, but he clutched it by the hair and yelled, “Pull the rope!”
Mr. Nit was already pulling, though in the cacophony of foghorns and shouts from the bridge he heard nothing. Mr. Goodman, with the corpse, came up to the hull and understood that Mr. Nit could not pull them both up—could hardly have pulled up one of them alone, since Mr. Nit was a tiny man, fragile and quick as a monkey but no more substantial. Mr. Goodman looped the rope around the drowned man’s waist, then shinnied. When he reached the rail he dug in and hauled. The drowned man came over the side; still no sign of the Captain.
“Jesus,” Mr. Nit said.
Mr. Goodman lay down on the deck, panting like a whale. “Jesus,” Mr. Nit said, “what do we do with him now?”
“He’s a human being,” Mr. Goodman gasped. “We couldn’t just let him die.”
The Coast Guard cutter had passed and was circling back. “Terrific,” said Mr. Nit. “Human being. Terrific.”
He did not look like one, it was true. His suit, striped shirt and tie were

unsightly, and his shoes had come off. His hair hung over his face like seaweed, and whenever you moved him or pushed down on his stomach— neither Mr. Goodman nor Mr. Nit had had lessons in artificial respiration, though they were doing their best—water came out of him like juice from an overripe pumpkin. He looked like one of those pictures called Descent from the Cross (Mr. Goodman had once been a museum guard).
“Is he breathing yet?” Mr. Nit asked anxiously of Mr. Goodman’s ear. Mr. Goodman pushed hard on the stomach again. “Not that I can see.”
Mr. Nit leaned still closer. “That cutter’s coming right up our asshole, Jack.”
Mr. Goodman sighed, pushed up from the body, hunching his shoulders in the cold wet salt-smelly shirt, and seized the drowned man’s feet. “We better get him out of sight,” he said. “Grab hold.”
Mr. Nit grabbed hold and they rolled him into the fish hatch with the pot. “Now let’s get out of here,” said Mr. Goodman.
The cutter horn boomed and Mr. Nit jumped like a rabbit. “Yes sir,” he said, as if the horn had spoken English, and he yelled, “Full speed frontwards!”
The Indomitable churned up white water a moment, then moved. The cutter’s searchlight came over them like the eye of God—the cutter looked a mile long—and a man on the cutter yelled down at them through a bullhorn. Rowrrrowrrow!
“Yes sir!” Mr. Nit yelled, cupping his hands. “Yes sir! Sorry sir!” “Get the lights back on,” said Mr. Goodman.
“Lights!” yelled Mr. Nit. They came on.
The bullhorn growled again, something about a drowning man. Mr. Nit and Mr. Goodman cupped their hands and yelled: “No sign of him. We been looking.” The Indomitable was now running full speed ahead, bobbing up and down in the sea’s heavy waves like a fisherman’s cork; the cutter was standing still, the white eye of God staring after them as if baffled and slightly hurt. Mr. Nit and Mr. Goodman continued yelling until fog blanked out even the searchlight.
And now, riding easy in the quiet of the bay, bobbing more gently, the engine no longer groaning in spasms as it did in the waves of the open Pacific, the Indomitable slowed and Mr. Goodman struggled to figure out his bearings. He made out at last the on-off-on flashing of the beer sign.

“Christ,” said Mr. Nit, “what’d we have done if the Captain come up, back there?”
They both turned at once. The Captain came out in his old black coat and his old black hat, his face greenish white from his sea-sickness. He steadied himself on the rail and inched toward them. He was barefoot, like the drowned man, and the crotch of his pants hung low. He was whiskered and bruised like one of those bums on Third Street. He had long white hair.
“What’s going on?” he said.
“Drowned man, sir,” Mr. Goodman said. “We pulled him aboard.”
The old man’s eyes widened and his lips sucked in and he decided not to believe it.
“It’s true, sir,” Mr. Nit said. “He was a human being, sir.”
Captain Fist leaned over the rail and vomited. Then, turning as slowly as a ship, he went back to his cabin and to bed.
Half an hour later, after they’d docked, Mr. Nit and Mr. Goodman dragged the body from the fish hatch, scraped off the marijuana, and, failing to notice that it was breathing already, though fast asleep and possibly unconscious, tried to revive it. Jane came from the wheel to help, slipping off her glasses as she came. She was pretty, but rugged as a saw. “Jesus Christ,” she said, and pushed them away. She pulled the drowned man’s tongue out and sat down on his belly. About a spoonful of water came dribbling from his mouth. She pumped on his belly with her buttocks and moved his elbows up and down like wings. “It’s useless,” she said. “He’s been like this for an hour by now.” Nevertheless, she went on pumping. Mr. Nit and Mr. Goodman squatted beside her, watching, and after a long time the drowned man groaned. She put her mouth over his.
When Peter Wagner opened his eyes it was the story of his life. By habit, he closed his arms around her and returned the kiss. She seemed surprised, and struggled. He humped upward a little and her pelvis moved down to meet his. He remembered the bridge then, and his eyes came wide open. Beyond the girl he could make out two men, hunched down, one broad- chested and sad of face, with arms like a boxer’s, a mouth oddly meek, the other small as a boy, with an axe-shaped head and the eyes of a coyote. In the greenish-yellow light behind them stood a man with an old black overcoat reaching to his shoetops and, on his shaggy, snow-white head, a wide-brimmed hat. His heavily knuckled hand leaned hard on a cane. Peter Wagner pulled his mouth away and the girl straightened up.

“Well,” she said, “he’s alive,” and she swung up off him and put on her glasses.
It was the wrong thing to say. He jerked up, groping with his hands and feet, and made for the rail. Without expression, the old man brought up his cane and then brought it down. It felt like being clubbed by a baseball bat. He saw stars; then he saw nothing.
